So It began with learning rag and then applying
its learning to a mini-pipline which combines all of my learnings

I started it as first feeding the dataset given in the course
I made a gold question dataset out of it into a jsonl file
then i made the same basic pipline of ingestion and retreival

Then i got into evaluating the before of using advanced rag concepts 
i Used diffrerent metrics i learned to score the relelvance fo the basic
rag pipline initialy before i added the advanced stuffs.

Then i plan to add tools of every advanced rag techniques that the agent can Use
whenever the basic rag does not give desired result and set in part with the metrics required

tools adding started, i planned to add 9 tools as per initial implementaiton :
    1. vector search tool : the OG tool for rag

    2. BM25 tool : lets get deep into it,
        BM25 (Best Match 25) is a lexical ranking algorithm that scores documents based on
        query-term occurrence, term rarity, term frequency saturation, and document-length normalization.
        BM25
    │
    ├── Term Frequency(TF) : Measures how often a query word appears in a document,
                            using saturation limits so repeating a word endlessly does not give an unfair advantage.
    │      ↓
    │   Does this document contain the query term?
    │
    ├── Inverse Document Frequency(IDF) : Gives higher importance to rare words and lower weight to common words.
    │      ↓
    │   Is that term rare/useful?
    │
    └── Document Length : Adjusts scores so that long documents do not automatically dominate short documents.
            ↓
        Is the document unusually long?

        done as : 
        Query
        ↓
        Tokenize
        ↓
        For every document:
        calculate term frequency
        calculate term rarity
        normalize document length
        calculate BM25 score
        ↓
        Sort by score
        ↓
        Top K documents

    3. Hybrid tools with RRF : it combines and takes best of both methods. it uses Reciprocal rank fusion to rank
        retrieved documents from both. 

        RRF (Reciprocal Rank Fusion) combines rankings from different retrieval methods, such as Vector Search + BM25.
        Instead of comparing their different raw scores, it uses their ranks. A document ranked highly by multiple retrievers gets a higher final score.

        Formula
        RRF(d) = Σ 1 / (k + rank_r(d))

        Where:
        d = document
        r = each retrieval system
        rank_r(d) = rank of document d in that retriever
        k = constant, usually 60

        For Vector + BM25:
        RRF(d) =
        1 / (60 + vector_rank)
        +
        1 / (60 + bm25_rank)

    4. Query Rewrite : for better retreival we Rewrite the query

    5. Query Expansion : for even better retrieval context we generate multiple similar queries from the given query.
        it also contains MMR,
        Maximal Marginal Relevance (MMR) is a retrieval/reranking technique that tries to select documents that are:
        Relevant to the query, and
        Different from documents already selected
        It is a retrieval/reranking strategy used to increase diversity of the retrieved context.
        The goal is to avoid retrieving 5 chunks that all say essentially the same thing.

        Formula
        MMR = λ × Similarity(document, query)
            − (1 − λ) × max Similarity(document, selected_documents)

        Where:
        Similarity(document, query) → how relevant the document is to the question
        Similarity(document, selected_documents) → how redundant it is with already-selected documents
        λ → trade-off between relevance and diversity
        λ = 1 → only relevance
        λ = 0 → only diversity
        commonly around 0.5–0.7
    
    6. Metadata search : Used for vector search having filter of document metadata to retrieve relevant ones only

    7. Reranker using cross-encoder : Used to rerank the document retrieved for giving better context priority to llm
        we use cross-encoder model for this purpose as,
        A cross-encoder is a model used to rerank retrieved candidates by looking at the query and document together.
        Conceptually, a cross-encoder reranker takes the user’s query and each retrieved document chunk together and asks, 
        “How relevant is this specific document to this specific query?” Unlike an embedding model that 
        converts the query and document separately and compares their vectors, 
        the cross-encoder processes the query–document pair jointly, allowing it to examine detailed 
        relationships between the words and context. It produces a relevance score for each candidate, 
        and you then sort the candidates by that score. So 
        the flow is: retrieve broadly → cross-encoder examines each query + candidate pair deeply → assign relevance 
        scores → rerank → keep the best chunks.
        The cross-encoder does not create two independent embeddings and compare them.

        It receives:

        [QUERY: How can I cancel my subscription?]
                            +
        [DOCUMENT: Customers can terminate their subscription
                within 30 days by contacting support.]

        together as one input to the Transformer.

        Inside the Transformer, the query tokens and document tokens can directly interact through attention
        and gets relevance.

    
Now after adding the tools will evaluate working of all tools correctly after that orchestrator building
before that for bm25 setup do

Done with evaluating working of all tools and their benchmarking

Now will move forward to making the orchestrator after that functionality ui and final test

Done with the orchestrator layer --- will review it
after that metrics testing
after that making pipeline to useful with ui and end to end as general purpose
complete testing